- The Lox language is of the C family of languages
	- It looks a little bit like JavaScript, also because they're both from the same family.


- **Dynamic typing**
	- Variables can store values of any type and one variable can even store values of different types. However, operations on values of the wrong type will be reported at runtime.

- **Automatic memory management**
	- We will implement a tracing garbage collection.
- **Data types**
	- **booleans**
		- `true` and `false`
	- **numbers**
		- has just one kind of number: double-precision floating point. We'll go only for basic integer and decimal literals.
	- **strings**
		- they'll be enclosed in double quotes.
	-  **nil**
		- the built-in value that represents "no value".


### 3.4 Expressions

- **Arithmetic**
	- there will be binary operators. The only operator that will work different is the `-` which can mean the negative of the variable. The `+` will also be able to concatenate strings.
- **Comparison and equality**
	- there will be the comparison operators (>, <, <= and >=) just for numbers.
	- we'll have checks for equality and inequality (== and !=)
		- values of different types and never equivalent (down to implicit conversions)
- **Logical operators**
	- The `!` prefix operator which will mean the negation of the variable.
	- The `and` operator will check if both values are true. It returns the left value if it's false and the right value if it's true.
	- The `or` operator will check if either value are true. If so, it returns the left value, otherwise returning the right one.
- **Precedence and grouping**
	- all of these operators have the same precedence and associativity that the C language does.


### 3.5 Statements

- Statement's job is to produce an effect.
	- An expression statement is followed by a semi-colon.
	- To pack a series of statements where a single one is expected, it can be wrapped in a `block`

```Lox
{
print "One";
print "Two";
}
```

### 3.6 Variables

- Variables can be declared by the keyword `var` and if they aren't initialised, they will be `nil`.


### 3.7 Control Flow

- The Lox language features `if` statement (if and else) that will execute one of two statements based on a condition.
- It also features the `while` loop which executes its body until the condition expression is true.
- And finally, `for` loops.


### 3.8 Functions

- A function call is similar to a C one. We can also call a function without params.
	- The parentheses are mandatory, though, if we don't use them, we will only refer to the function instead of calling it.
- To define our own functions we use the `fun` keyword.

*author rambling about the difference between argument and parameter which I'll just copy paste*

- An **argument** is an actual value you pass to a function when you call it. So a function _call_ has an _argument_ list. Sometimes you hear **actual parameter** used for these.
- A **parameter** is a variable that holds the value of the argument inside the body of the function. Thus, a function _declaration_ has a _parameter_ list. Others call these **formal parameters** or simply **formals**.

- The body of a function is always a block and we return by using, you can guess, the `return` keyword. If we don't use it, the function result is `nil`.

#### 3.8.1 Closures

- Functions are first class in Lox, which means that they are real values that we can get a reference to and use it, such as 
``` Lox
fun addPair(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

fun identity(a) {
  return a;
}

print identity(addPair)(1, 2); // Prints "3".
```
- Since function declarations are statements, we can declare local functions inside other functions.
- We'll run into an interesting case where, if we combine local functions, first-class functions and block scope, we can find this.

```Lox
fun returnFunction() {
  var outside = "outside";

  fun inner() {
    print outside;
  }

  return inner;
}

var fn = returnFunction();
fn();
```

- For the inner() function to work, it will access a variable that is declared outside of its body, which means that we won't be able to use a simple stack to define variable scope.


### 3.9 Classes

- Some languages are prototype-based.
	- There's only objects and no classes. 
	- Each individual object may contain state and methods.
	- They can directly inherit from each other.

- In our case, the Lox language has classes. They contain methods which are declared just like a function but without the keyword.
	- Just like functions, they are first class.

```Lox
class Breakfast {
  cook() {
    print "Eggs a-fryin'!";
  }

  serve(who) {
    print "Enjoy your breakfast, " + who + ".";
  }
}
```
- To create instances, instead of using the `new` keyword, in the Lox language the class itself is a factory function for instance. Call the class like a function and it produces a new instance of itself.
- You can also freely add properties onto objects.
	- Assigning to a field creates it if it doesn't exist already.

```Lox
breakfast.meat = "sausage";
breakfast.bread = "sourdough";
```
- If there's a need to access a method or field inside the current object, the keyword `this` can be used to do it.
- To initialise data when the object is created, we can pass the info to the method called `init()`.
	- It is called automatically.
	- The params are forwarded to its initialiser.

- Lox supports single inheritance. When you declare a class, the `<` can be used to specific a class which it inherits.
	- The `init()` method also gets inherited. Ideally the subclass should define its own.
	- To call the init from the super class, we can use the `super` keyword

``` Lox
class Brunch < Breakfast {
  init(meat, bread, drink) {
    super.init(meat, bread);
    this.drink = drink;
  }
}
```

- Primitive values won't be objects in the sense of being instances of classes. They don't have methods or properties.


### 3.10 The Standard Library

- It will have only the `print` and the `clock` method, for testing purposes.