### 4.2 Lexemes and Tokens

`var language = "lox";
`
- In this line, `var` is the keyword for declaring the variable.
- But if we, for example, take the `gua` out of language, it still doesn't mean much on their own.
- This work is the **lexical analysis**.
	- We'll scan through the list of chars and group them together into the smallest sequences that still represent something.

- Each result is called a **lexeme**. 
	- In the line above we have (1) `var` (2) `language` (3) `=` (4) `"lox"` and (5) `;`
	- They are substrings of the source code. By grouping lexemes with other data, we get a **token**.


- Keywords are part of the shape of the language's grammar. The parser not only wants to know if it has a lexeme for some identifier, but that it has a reserved word and which keyword that is.


### 4.3 Regular Languages and Expressions

- The core of the scanner is a loop: starting at the first char of the source code, it figures out what lexeme the char belongs to and consumes it and any following chars that belong to it. When it finishes, it emits a token.
- This can be accomplished with a regex.
- The rules that determine how a particular language groups chars into lexemes are called its **lexical grammar**. 
	- Since Lox, as most programming languages, is simple, it is classified a regular language (the same regular as regular expressions)


### 4.4 The Scanner Class

- For simple one character lexemes, it's easy to do the match.
- For two character lexemes that can also just have one, we apply a ternary so that we check the next char and can decide what token it is.
- In the case of the `/` char: if by itself, do a division, else, if it's followed by another `/` move to the end of the line, since it's a comment.
- With string literal, we consumo chars until we hit the `"` that ends the string.
	- If we run out of input before the string is closed, we also report and error.
- For number literals, all numbers are floating points in Lox but both integers and decimal literals are permitted.
	- In this case, he'll look for a starting digit to start the conditional logic.



### 4.7 Reserved Words and Identifiers

- To not mistake bigger words that include a reserved keyword as a substring, we'll assume every digital or underscore to be an identifier and then we scan until the end of the word.
- After scanning the identifier, we check if it matches against a hashmap of reserved keyword. If it does, we pass that type as the token, if not we pass it as a regular user-defined identifier.